---
permalink: /
title: "About me"
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

Hi there! I am Giulio, and I am from Italy. The main areas I deal with are Business Analysis, Business Strategy, Project Management, and Data Analysis/Business Intelligence. In addition to these main ones, other areas that I am interested in are Corporate Governance, Performance Management, M&A, and Behavioural Economics.
                        
I have been working for the European Central Bank in Frankfurt am Main since the 15th of April 2023 as Finance Analyst in the Budgeting and Controlling division (Directorate of Finance), specifically in the Projects & Analytics team. Our primary responsibilities include managing budget allocations and adjustments, based on Business Areas need and Budget Partners input. As controllers, we periodically run different types of reconciliations to ensure financial data alignment in SAP and in our dashboards, or to identifying any system issues for IT investigation. In addition, we contribute to draft the ECB key budget dossiers, such as Budget Planning, Year-End Report and Mid-Year Forecasts, by budget/actuals data extraction and elaboration. In the team, I oversee the creation and maintenance of masterdata in the main financial modules and environments of SAP, ensuring that any type of financial or headcount allocation per cost object is accurately recorded and monitored. I have also contributed to enhancing this masterdata cycle within the team by implementing various VBA automations. Then, as the knowledge management responsible in the team, I regularly update and review our technical procedures while reorganizing the Darwin space, to improve knowledge sharing and task handover.

My academic background in Economics and Management, with a focus on Business and Administration, has provided me with a solid foundation in cost accounting, performance analysis, and business analytics. This includes studying the key profitability ratios, such as Return on Assets, Return on Equity, and Net Profit Margin. Additionally, I gained proficiency in utilizing tools to create customized and interactive data-visualization dashboards based on large amounts of data, like Power BI, or the use of some programming languages (R, Python) for further elaboration.

On 30 March 2023, I graduated with a Master's degree in Economics and Management, International curriculum in Business and Administration, at the University of Bologna (Italy), with a final grade of 110/110 cum laude. My level of English is advanced (C1 certificate) and my Master's degree was taught entirely in English, as were my international Erasmus+ experiences. Indeed, I was an Erasmus+ exchange student at SGH, Warsaw School of Economics (Warsaw, Poland) for the winter semester 2021/2022 (GPA 4.0/4.0) and an Erasmus+ exchange intern at 26HOUSE (Bratislava, Slovakia) from September to December 2022.

For my final dissertation, I combined the process of writing my Master's thesis, on the fields of Administration and Network and Crisis Management, with a 4-month internship (September-December 2022) under the Erasmus+ programs for one of the leading Slovak/Czech providers of complex ERP (mainly SAP and Odoo) and consulting services, called 26HOUSE, based in Bratislava (Slovakia). During this period, I covered various roles, starting as CEO Assistant, then as ERP Specialist Intern, and finally -and mostly-  as Business Consultant Intern. With my thesis project, titled "Crisis and recovery in a start-up. The case of the Slovak company Synculario", I conducted an empirical analysis to identify and structure the key factors and root causes of Synculario's crisis in 2022, which is 26HOUSE's subsidiary. In addition, I researched the solutions that have been adopted by the new administration to recover, together with the restructuring strategies implemented.

As for my other professional experience, I completed a two-month remote intensive internship (March-May 2022) as a Business Analyst for OESON (remotely, the company being based in Indore, India), in which I applied what I learned in the Business Intelligence course taken during my master's degree, in terms of producing 
complex measures with DAX language, creating interactive dashboards, cleaning and preprocessing of data, using R for hypothesis testing and correlation analysis. However, my passion for the world of Data Analysis does not end in the software learned so far; in fact, 
I am very eager to constantly continue to learn new tools to expand my analytical and technical knowledge, such as Tableau, SQL, and any other software that is necessary to learn for my professional career.
                          
   In addition, in parallel with my studies and the Business Analyst internship, I have completed a part-time six-month internship (March-September 2022) as Business Development Intern for The THRIVE Project, an Australian Non-profit. 
I have been a Project manager involved so far in three crucial sustainability projects to promote the corporate framework and develop new partnerships and collaborations with organizations, institutions, and NGOs working in the areas related to the 14 SDGs.
But not only that. Working for an organization with such a focus on environmental sustainability has also allowed me to get closer to researchers from all over the world who are experts in every possible field, of all ages, with the opportunity to collaborate with them on various projects and consequently learn the type of approach used in research.

Among my passions and hobbies, I love travelling, hiking (and generally any kind of outdoor tourism), playing chess, watching TV series, and meet new people from different cultures. Among all these, however, my greatest passion is music, of which I am a great devotee (especially the vast world of electronic music). If you are passionate too, you can find out all about my music tastes in my Spotify profile (https://open.spotify.com/user/2147ostd2xil2uieljbmk6fri?si=9645c77e8082468e). I love to discover new sounds and interesting songs, as well as keeping on classify them into different playlists, to have something suitable to play in different situations and moods.
